# CS360

The application that I chose is the weight tracking app. The overarching purpose of the app is to help user’s achieve their weight loss goals by helping them track their weight on a daily basis. In order to be successful, the app needed to include several different major components. The first component was a database with a set of three tables for daily weight, logins/passwords, and the goal weight. There is a login screen that prompts the user to enter their credentials to access the app. The login screen also has an option for new users to create an account. The next component is a screen for users to keep a log of their weight each day. Lastly, there are three mechanisms: one for daily weight, one for goal weight, and one to alert the user when they achieve their goal weight. All of these components help the overall purpose of the app by keeping the user constantly aware of their progress towards their goal. Which in turn, helps the user make better decisions for their health in order to achieve their weight loss accomplishments. 

There are many different types of users who would find this app to be useful. This app would be beneficial to a user who is underweight and looking to gain weight, a user who is overweight and looking to lose weight, and a user who is at a healthy weight and wants to maintain it. This app fits into a user’s lifestyle by helping them take control of their health and wellbeing. A user might feel that this app is right for them if they want a tool that will help assist them in meeting their goals and help them to make healthier choices in their daily life. A user would only have to dedicate a few minutes of their day to weighing themselves and logging it in the app. 

My UI designs helped keep the user in mind because I designed them to be easy to navigate and user-friendly. My designs were successful because I kept them simple to stick to the main goals of the app. I approached the process of coding the app by referring to the Zybooks reading for guidance. I tested my code and ensured that it was functional by debugging, reviewing the code, and testing the app. I acted as if I was a user and navigated the app myself to ensure that it was working correctly. The process of testing the code is important because it verifies that the app is working as intended. The point where I had to innovate to overcome a challenge is when I would get overwhelmed. In the future, I intend to come up with a clear plan before I begin developing my app. I had a plan for the design of my app but not for the functionality. The specific component of my app that demonstrates my success is my home screen. I was able to successfully add a grid with the option for the user to add, update, and delete data. 
